[DOCS-5974] CI Visibility Add code coverage guide (#19196)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/continuous_integration/guides/code_coverage.md

---
title: Code coverage in Datadog
kind: guide
description: Learn how to report and use code coverage in Datadog
further_reading:
  - link: "/continuous_integration/tests"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Exploring tests"
---

{{< site-region region="gov" >}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">CI Visibility is not available in the selected site ({{< region-param key="dd_site_name" >}}) at this time.</div>
{{< /site-region >}}

## Report code coverage

> Before you can follow this guide, make sure that [Test Visibility][1] is already set up for your language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that [Test Visibility][1] is already set up for your language.
```

{{< tabs >}}

> {{% tab "Javascript/Typescript" %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% tab "JavaScript/TypeScript" %}}
```

### Compatibility

* `dd-trace>=3.20.0`.
* `jest>=24.8.0`, only when run with `jest-circus`.
* `mocha>=5.2.0`.
* `cucumber-js>=7.0.0`.

When tests are instrumented with [Istanbul][1], the Datadog Tracer reports code coverage under the `test.code_coverage.lines_pct` tag for your test sessions automatically.

> To instrument tests with Istanbul, the easiest way is to use [`nyc`][2]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To instrument tests with Istanbul, you can use [`nyc`][2]:
```

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "test": "mocha",
    "coverage": "nyc npm run test"
  }
}
```

> Then use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, use:
```

```
NODE_OPTIONS="-r dd-trace/ci/init" DD_ENV=ci DD_SERVICE=my-javascript-service npm run coverage
```

> Jest includes istanbul by default, so you can simply do:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jest includes Istanbul by default, so you can do:
```

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "test:coverage": "jest --coverage"
  }
}
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

Then, use:

```

> ```

Reviewer: Is there any instruction you'd like to provide here?

Author: yeah I guess I can use the same `Then, use`

NODE_OPTIONS="-r dd-trace/ci/init" DD_ENV=ci DD_SERVICE=my-javascript-service npm run test:coverage
```

[1]: https://istanbul.js.org/
[2]: https://github.com/istanbuljs/nyc
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab ".NET" %}}

### Compatibility
* `dd-trace>=2.31.0`.

> When code coverage is available, the Datadog Tracer (v2.31.0+) reports it under the `test.code_coverage.lines_pct` tag for your test sessions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When code coverage is available, the Datadog Tracer (v2.31.0 or later) reports it under the `test.code_coverage.lines_pct` tag for your test sessions.
```

> If you are using [Coverlet][1] to compute your code coverage, indicate the path to the report file in the `DD_CIVISIBILITY_EXTERNAL_CODE_COVERAGE_PATH` environment variable when running `dd-trace`. The report file must be in the OpenCover or Cobertura formats. Alternatively, you can enable the Datadog Tracer’s built-in code coverage calculation with the env var `DD_CIVISIBILITY_CODE_COVERAGE_ENABLED=true`.
> 
> 
> [1]: https://github.com/coverlet-coverage/coverlet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using [Coverlet][1] to compute your code coverage, indicate the path to the report file in the `DD_CIVISIBILITY_EXTERNAL_CODE_COVERAGE_PATH` environment variable when running `dd-trace`. The report file must be in the OpenCover or Cobertura formats. Alternatively, you can enable the Datadog Tracer’s built-in code coverage calculation with the `DD_CIVISIBILITY_CODE_COVERAGE_ENABLED=true` env variable.

[101]: https://github.com/coverlet-coverage/coverlet
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Graph code coverage

> The reported code coverage can be seen in the **Coverage** tab in the test session detail:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reported code coverage appears on the **Coverage** tab in a test session details page:
```

{{< img src="/continuous_integration/code_coverage_tab.png" text="Test sessions code coverage tab" style="width:100%" >}}

### Export your graph

> It is possible to export your graph to a [dashboard][2] or a [notebook][3] and even create a [monitor][4] based on it. Click **Export** on the right side:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can export your graph to a [dashboard][2] or a [notebook][3] and create a [monitor][4] based on it. 

Click **Export** on the right side:
```

{{< img src="/continuous_integration/code_coverage_export_to.png" text="Export code coverage" style="width:100%" >}}

### Add a monitor

> Get alerted whenever code coverage for your service drops below a certain threshold:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Get alerted whenever code coverage for your service drops below a certain threshold using a CI Test Monitor:
```

> {{< img src="/continuous_integration/code_coverage_monitor.png" text="Test sessions code coverage tab" style="width:100%" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< img src="/continuous_integration/code_coverage_monitor.png" text="Test sessions code coverage tab" style="width:100%" >}}

For more information, see [CI Monitors][5].
```

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /continuous_integration/tests/
[2]: /dashboards
[3]: /notebooks

> [4]: /monitors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[4]: /monitors
[5]: /monitors/types/ci
```
